168-[JAWS]-Activity - Install and Configure the AWS CLI
Install and Configure the AWS CLI Lab
Lab Overview
The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) is a command-line tool that provides an interface for interacting with Amazon Web Services (AWS) products and services. This lab guides you through installing and configuring the AWS CLI on a Red Hat Linux Amazon EC2 instance, which does not have the AWS CLI pre-installed (unlike Amazon Linux instances). You will:

Establish a Secure Shell (SSH) connection to the EC2 instance.
Install the AWS CLI using an access key to connect to an AWS account.
Use the AWS CLI to interact with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).

The resulting setup allows you to access the AWS Cloud via an SSH connection to a Red Hat EC2 instance within a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), with the AWS CLI configured to interact with IAM.
Duration: Approximately 45 minutes.
Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

Install and configure the AWS CLI.
Connect the AWS CLI to an AWS account.
Access IAM using the AWS CLI.

Prerequisites

Access to the AWS Management Console.
An EC2 instance running Red Hat Linux.
SSH client (PuTTY for Windows, terminal for macOS/Linux).

Accessing the AWS Management Console

Choose Start Lab at the top of the lab instructions.
Wait for the "Lab status: ready" message, then close the Start Lab panel by choosing X.
Select AWS next to Start Lab to open the AWS Management Console in a new browser tab (auto-signed in).
Tip: If the tab doesn’t open, check for a browser pop-up blocker and allow pop-ups.


Arrange the AWS Management Console alongside the lab instructions.
Important: Do not change the lab Region unless instructed.



Task 1: Connect to the Red Hat EC2 Instance Using SSH
Windows Users

From the Details dropdown menu, select Show to open the Credentials window.
Click Download PPK and save the labsuser.ppk file (typically to the Downloads directory).
Note the Public IP address.
Close the Details panel by selecting X.
If not installed, download PuTTY from here.
Open putty.exe and configure the session following AWS documentation for connecting to a Linux instance using PuTTY.

macOS and Linux Users

From the Details dropdown menu, select Show to open the Credentials window.
Click Download PEM and save the labsuser.pem file.
Copy the Public IP address to a text editor.
Close the Details panel by selecting X.
Open a terminal and navigate to the directory containing labsuser.pem:cd ~/Downloads


Set read-only permissions for the key:chmod 400 labsuser.pem


Connect to the EC2 instance, replacing <ip-address> with the Public IP:ssh -i labsuser.pem ec2-user@<ip-address>


When prompted, type yes to connect. No password is required as the key pair is used for authentication.

Task 2: Install the AWS CLI on the Red Hat Linux Instance

Download the AWS CLI installer:curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"


Unzip the installer, overwriting existing files if prompted:unzip -u awscliv2.zip


Install the AWS CLI with sudo permissions:sudo ./aws/install


Verify the installation:aws --version

Expected output example:aws-cli/2.7.24 Python/3.8.8 Linux/4.14.133-113.105.amzn2.x86_64 botocore/2.4.5


Display AWS CLI help information:aws help


At the : prompt, type q to exit.

Task 3: Observe IAM Configuration Details in the AWS Management Console

In the AWS Management Console, search for IAM and select it to open the IAM console.
Note: Ignore any permission-related messages on the IAM page.


In the navigation pane, select Users, then choose awsstudent.
On the Permissions tab, expand lab_policy, and click the JSON button to view the JSON-formatted IAM policy.
Switch to the Security credentials tab and locate the access key ID for the awsstudent user.
Note: The access key ID and secret access key are available in the Details dropdown at the top of the lab instructions.



Task 4: Configure the AWS CLI to Connect to Your AWS Account

In the SSH terminal, configure the AWS CLI:aws configure


Enter the following at the prompts:
AWS Access Key ID: Copy from the Details dropdown (Accesskey).
AWS Secret Access Key: Copy from the Details dropdown (SecretKey).
Default region name: us-west-2
Default output format: json



Task 5: Observe IAM Configuration Details Using the AWS CLI

Test the IAM configuration by listing IAM users:aws iam list-users

A successful response displays a JSON list of IAM users in the account.

Activity 1 Challenge: Download the lab_policy Document Using the AWS CLI
Use the AWS CLI to download the lab_policy document as a JSON-formatted IAM policy, matching the one viewed in the AWS Management Console. Avoid using the Console.
Tips

Refer to the IAM AWS CLI Command Reference.
Use a command to list policies, filtering by --scope Local for customer-managed policies.
Use a command to retrieve a policy version, specifying the version number.
Save output to a file using the > operator.

Solution

List customer-managed policies:aws iam list-policies --scope Local


Retrieve the lab_policy JSON document using its ARN and version ID, saving it to lab_policy.json:aws iam get-policy-version --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::038946776283:policy/lab_policy --version-id v1 > lab_policy.json



Activity Summary
You successfully:

Installed the AWS CLI on a Red Hat Linux EC2 instance.
Connected the AWS CLI to an AWS account using access keys.
Retrieved IAM policy information using the AWS CLI.

Key Takeaways

The AWS CLI enables command-line management of AWS services, complementing the AWS Management Console.
AWS CLI requires an access key ID and secret access key, while the Console uses a username and password.

Conclusion
You have completed the lab, achieving the following:

Installed and configured the AWS CLI.
Connected the AWS CLI to an AWS account.
Accessed IAM using the AWS CLI.

Lab Cleanup

Choose End Lab at the top of the instructions and confirm with Yes.
Close the End Lab panel by selecting X when the "Lab resources are terminating" message appears.
